Just a few tasty notes as I kinda
begin to get us into the next section.
Just in case, you wanna half listen to me
while you also type stuff in the terminal,
cuz that's great.
There's some various options
that you can pass to Vitest.
If you use an NPM test, you have
to do the -- and then the flags to
have them pass through, but there
are some fun options that you can set.
Run will have it not drop
into that watch mode,
which is useful with some
of the different reporters.
There's also an HTML reporter and JSON.
And other ones,
dot is just a lot less on the screen,
it's just like little dots that
show you that have passed.
The other really kind of cool one that I
have found myself at first I was like,
this is a little bit like kitschy but
now I'm into it is if you do --ui,
it will spin up an entire
like user interface.
That shows you entire test suite and
will show you what dependencies
got pulled in and the code itself and
where the failures are.
When we talk about the feedback loop,
it's great to see it in the terminal.
But a lot of times, if you look
at my terminal when we go back,
I got a lot of room there and
some of those errors are big.
And so I do have a second monitor when I'm
at home, and so having that up there where
I can kind of see the tests in real time
feedback as I'm hitting save all the time.
And having that feedback loop,
it makes me way more productive.
So actually to I guess answer that
question earlier isn't use Vitest
over Jess, I don't think has Jess has it,
but it's pretty cool.
I will show it to you real quick just,
mpx vitest --ui.
And here you can say,
it will spit out my variable show
me the overall looking at the test.
On this case,
it'll show me like a visual representation
of all of my passing wonderfulness.
All the tests pass,
you can see a module graph,
there's not much to see in this case.
Because these are very simple files,
you can also just see anything
logged to the console.
Cuz I don't know about y'all but yes,
there's ways to set break points and
debug, absolutely.
Do you know what I do most of the time?
I put a console log in there, and then I
scroll up to my terminal looking for it.
I put in like, lalalalalala, wow,
so I can go command F, find it.
This a lot of times is a lot better
because I can just see that stuff
right here.
So big fan, like it a lot, spins up a
little server at a ridiculous port number.
And let you navigate through all your
tests, like kind of rerun them all.
It's even got a dark mode
if that's your thing.
We talked a little bit
before about how if your
tests pass because they don't fail, right?
And one way to handle this particularly,
there are certain
techniques that make a lot more sense
when you're developing the tests,
like then when you are actually running
them all the time a lot of times.
If I'm starting brand
new on something right,
like some of the first tests that I write,
I will delete, right?
I will import the thing from
the implementation file and
write a test that exists,
I don't need that.
If any of the other tests
pass it probably exists.
But there are certain things I'll do
in the very beginning to verify that
everything works is nobody likes
a situation where you've been coding for
45 minutes to find out that you made one
fundamental mistake at the beginning, and
nothing's been running at all anywhere.
So one of the ways you can do this is
you can insist that there is at least,
some number of assertions that
happen in your test file, right?
Like be like, hey, I'm expecting a certain
number of assertions happen where
literally any, right, and then it
will blow up if that didn't happen.
This is a great way to sanity check,
right, because testing is great until
you're in that situation where it's not
working and your tests are passing, right?
That if you're not getting an error
message, sometimes, it's very hard to see.
So this is an easy way to
do a quick sanity check.
And I say this, and
I call it out specifically because I would
love to inspire you to get into
the routine of just once or
twice when you're writing a new test and
it's passing,
do a sanity check to make sure
that it is in fact, correct.
Actually, asserting anything, but
whatever's happening is not in some kind
of weird conditional, or
you're mapping over an empty array and
doing an expectation, and
that expect is never getting called ever.
Don't be like me,
I say these from experience.